=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Awesome - A more awesome MakeMaker plugin for L<Dist::Zilla>

=head1 VERSION

version 0.43

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [MakeMaker::Awesome]
    WriteMakefile_arg = CCFLAGS => `pkg-config --cflags libpng`
    WriteMakefile_arg = LIBS => [ `pkg-config --libs libpng` ]
    header = die 'Unsupported OS' if $^O eq 'MSWin32';
    delimiter = |
    footer = |package MY;
    footer = |sub postamble {
    footer = |    my $self = shift;
    footer = |    return $self->SUPER::postamble . "\n\nfoo: bar\n\t$(CP) bar foo\n";
    footer = |}

or:

    ;; Replace [MakeMaker]
    ;[MakeMaker]
    [=inc::MyMakeMaker]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Dist::Zilla>'s L<MakeMaker|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker> plugin is
limited, if you want to stray from the marked path and do something
that would normally be done in a C<package MY> section or otherwise
run custom code in your F<Makefile.PL> you're out of luck.

This plugin is 100% compatible with L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker> -- we
add additional customization hooks by subclassing it.

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

Many features can be accessed directly via F<dist.ini>, by setting options.
For options where you expect a multi-line string to be inserted into
F<Makefile.PL>, use the config option more than once, setting each line
separately.

=head2 WriteMakefile_arg

A string, which evaluates to an even-numbered list, which will be included in the call to
C<WriteMakefile>.  Any code is legal that can be inserted into a list of other
key-value pairs, for example:

    [MakeMaker::Awesome]
    WriteMakefile_arg = ( $^O eq 'solaris' ? ( CCFLAGS => '-Wall' ) : ())

Can be used more than once.
Available since version 0.21.

=for stopwords DynamicPrereqs

Note: you (intentionally) cannot use this mechanism for specifying dynamic
prerequisites, as previous occurrences of a top-level key will be overwritten
(additionally, you cannot set the fallback prereqs from here). You should take
a look at L<[DynamicPrereqs]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::DynamicPrereqs> for this.

=head2 header

A line of code which is included near the top of F<Makefile.PL>.  Can be used more than once.
Available since version 0.26.

=head2 header_file

The name of a file in the source tree (does not need to be gathered in the
build) whose content is inserted near the top of F<Makefile.PL>.
Available since version 0.35.

=head2 footer

A line of code which is included at the bottom of F<Makefile.PL>.  Can be used more than once.
Available since version 0.26.

=head2 footer_file

The name of a file in the source tree (does not need to be gathered in the
build) whose content is inserted at the bottom of F<Makefile.PL>.
Available since version 0.35.

=head2 delimiter

A string, usually a single character, which is stripped from the beginning of
all C<WriteMakefile_arg>, C<header>, and C<footer> lines. This is because the
INI file format strips all leading whitespace from option values, so including
this character at the front allows you to use leading whitespace in an option
string.  This is crucial for the formatting of F<Makefile>s, but a nice thing
to have when inserting any block of code.

Available since version 0.27.

=head2 test_file

A glob path given to the C<< test => { TESTS => ... } >> parameter for
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/WriteMakefile>. Can be used more than once.
Defaults to F<.t> files under F<t/>.  B<NOT> a directory name, despite the name.

Available since version 0.21.

=head2 exe_file

The file given to the C<EXE_FILES> parameter for
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/WriteMakefile>. Can be used more than once.
Defaults to using data from C<:ExecDir> plugins.

Available since version 0.21.

=head1 SUBCLASSING

You can further customize the content of F<Makefile.PL> by subclassing this plugin,
L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Awesome>.

As an example, adding a C<package MY> section to your
F<Makefile.PL>:

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [=inc::MyDistMakeMaker / MyDistMakeMaker]

Then in your F<inc/MyDistMakeMaker.pm>, real example from L<Hailo>
(which has C<[=inc::HailoMakeMaker / HailoMakeMaker]> in its
F<dist.ini>):

    package inc::HailoMakeMaker;
    use Moose;

    extends 'Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Awesome';

    override _build_MakeFile_PL_template => sub {
        my ($self) = @_;
        my $template = super();

        $template .= <<'TEMPLATE';
    package MY;

    sub test {
        my $inherited = shift->SUPER::test(@_);

        # Run tests with Moose and Mouse
        $inherited =~ s/^test_dynamic :: pure_all\n\t(.*?)\n/test_dynamic :: pure_all\n\tANY_MOOSE=Mouse $1\n\tANY_MOOSE=Moose $1\n/m;

        return $inherited;
    }
    TEMPLATE

        return $template;
    };

    __PACKAGE__->meta->make_immutable;

=for stopwords distro

Or maybe you're writing an XS distro and want to pass custom arguments
to C<WriteMakefile()>, here's an example of adding a C<LIBS> argument
in L<re::engine::PCRE> (note that you can also achieve this without
subclassing, by passing the L</WriteMakefile_arg> option):

    package inc::PCREMakeMaker;
    use Moose;

    extends 'Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Awesome';

    override _build_WriteMakefile_args => sub { +{
        # Add LIBS => to WriteMakefile() args
        %{ super() },
        LIBS => [ '-lpcre' ],
    } };

    __PACKAGE__->meta->make_immutable;

And another example from L<re::engine::Plan9>, which determines the arguments
dynamically at build time:

    package inc::Plan9MakeMaker;
    use Moose;

    extends 'Dist::Zilla::Plugin::MakeMaker::Awesome';

    override _build_WriteMakefile_args => sub {
        my ($self) = @_;

        our @DIR = qw(libutf libfmt libregexp);
        our @OBJ = map { s/\.c$/.o/; $_ }
                   grep { ! /test/ }
                   glob "lib*/*.c";

        return +{
            %{ super() },
            DIR           => [ @DIR ],
            INC           => join(' ', map { "-I$_" } @DIR),

            # This used to be '-shared lib*/*.o' but that doesn't work on Win32
            LDDLFLAGS     => "-shared @OBJ",
        };
    };

    __PACKAGE__->meta->make_immutable;

If you have custom code in your L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>-based
F<Makefile.PL> that L<Dist::Zilla> can't replace via its default
facilities you'll be able to replace it by using this module.

Even if your F<Makefile.PL> isn't L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>-based you
should be able to override it. You'll just have to provide a new
L</"_build_MakeFile_PL_template">.

=for stopwords overridable

=head2 OVERRIDABLE METHODS

These are the methods you can currently C<override> or method-modify in your
custom F<inc/> module. The work that this module does is entirely done in
small modular methods that can be overridden in your subclass. Here are
some of the highlights:

=for Pod::Coverage mvp_multivalue_args mvp_aliases

=head3 _build_MakeFile_PL_template

Returns a L<Text::Template> string used to construct the F<Makefile.PL>.

If you need to insert some additional code to the beginning or end of
F<Makefile.PL> (without modifying the existing content, you should use an
C<around> method modifier, something like this:

    around _build_MakeFile_PL_template => sub {
        my $orig = shift;
        my $self = shift;

        my $NEW_CONTENT = ...;

        # insert new content near the beginning of the file, preserving the
        # existing header content
        my $string = $self->$orig(@_);
        $string =~ m/use warnings;\n\n/g;
        return substr($string, 0, pos($string)) . $NEW_CONTENT . substr($string, pos($string));
    };

=head3 _build_WriteMakefile_args

A C<HashRef> of arguments that will be passed to
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker>'s C<WriteMakefile> function.

=head3 _build_WriteMakefile_dump

Takes the return value of L</"_build_WriteMakefile_args"> and
constructs a L<Str> that will be included in the F<Makefile.PL> by
L</"_build_MakeFile_PL_template">.

=head3 _build_header

A C<Str> of code that will be included near the top of F<Makefile.PL>.

=head3 _build_footer

A C<Str> of code that will be included at the bottom of F<Makefile.PL>.

=head3 _build_test_files

The glob paths given to the C<< test => { TESTS => ... } >> parameter for
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/WriteMakefile>.  Defaults to F<.t> files under F<t/>.
B<NOT> directories, despite the name.

=head3 _build_exe_files

The files given to the C<EXE_FILES> parameter for
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/WriteMakefile>.
Defaults to using data from C<:ExecDir> plugins.

=head3 _build_min_perl_version

Extracts from the distribution prerequisite object the minimum version of perl
required; used for the C<MIN_PERL_VERSION> parameter for
L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker/WriteMakefile>.

=head3 register_prereqs

=head3 gather_files

=head3 setup_installer

=for stopwords dirs

The test/bin/share dirs and exe_files. These will all be passed to
F</"_build_WriteMakefile_args"> later.

=head3 _build_share_dir_block

=for stopwords sharedir

An C<ArrayRef[Str]> with two elements to be used by
L</"_build_MakeFile_PL_template">. The first will declare your
L<sharedir|File::ShareDir::Install> and the second will add a magic
C<package MY> section to install it. Deep magic.

=head2 OTHER

The main entry point is C<setup_installer> via the
L<Dist::Zilla::Role::InstallTool> role. There are also other magic
Dist::Zilla roles, check the source for more info.

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over

=item attempt to add F<Makefile.PL> multiple times

This error from L<Dist::Zilla> means that you've used both
C<[MakeMaker]> and C<[MakeMaker::Awesome]>. You've either included
C<MakeMaker> directly in F<dist.ini>, or you have plugin bundle that
includes it. See L<@Filter|Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Filter> for how
to filter it out.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=for stopwords INI

This plugin would suck less if L<Dist::Zilla> didn't use a INI-based
config system so you could add stuff like this in your main
configuration file like you can with L<Module::Install>.

The F<.ini> file format can only support key-value pairs whereas any
complex use of L<ExtUtils::MakeMaker> requires running custom Perl
code and passing complex data structures to C<WriteMakefile>.

=head1 AFTERWORD

     ________________________
    < everything is AWESOME! >
     ------------------------
        \                                  ___-------___
         \                             _-~~             ~~-_
          \                         _-~                    /~-_
                 /^\__/^\         /~  \                   /    \
               /|  O|| O|        /      \_______________/        \
              | |___||__|      /       /                \          \
              |          \    /      /                    \          \
              |   (_______) /______/                        \_________ \
              |         / /         \                      /            \
               \         \^\\         \                  /               \     /
                 \         ||           \______________/      _-_       //\__//
                   \       ||------_-~~-_ ------------- \ --/~   ~\    || __/
                     ~-----||====/~     |==================|       |/~~~~~
                      (_(__/  ./     /                    \_\      \.
                             (_(___/                         \_____)_)

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-MakeMaker-Awesome>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-MakeMaker-Awesome@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-MakeMaker-Awesome@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://dzil.org/#mailing-list>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#distzilla> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#distzilla>.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason <avar@cpan.org>

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Jesse Luehrs Robin Smidsrød Vladimir Timofeev

=over 4

=item *

Jesse Luehrs <doy@tozt.net>

=item *

Robin Smidsrød <robin@smidsrod.no>

=item *

Vladimir Timofeev <vovkasm@gmail.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2010 by Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
